CHAPTER 1

Simple queueing system terminology:

System = The system that the queueing model is based on (reception desk, repair facility, garage, Airport security, hospital etc.)

Customer = an object which is subject to being served in the queueing system (people, Machines, trucks, passengers, patients etc)

Servers = An object which does the serving on the customer (Receptionist, repair person, mechanic, baggage x-ray, nurses etc.)

Arrival rate = Expected number of arrivals in the next unit of time. Think of the 5 patients and one nurse. When all patients have been served and aren't complaining. The arrival rate is at its maximum because any patient could call at any time.

System capacity = the upper bound of customers that can be in the waiting line or system. For example a car wash might only have room for 10 cars. An arriving customer who finds a full system does not enter but returns immidietly to the calling population. But a system for selling tickets for a concert might have unlimited capacity or at least a very big upper bound.

Arrival process = if its random, the interarrival times are characterized by a probability distribution. Poisson distribution is the most important distribution. If the arrivals are scheduled then its easier to model the positive or negative deviations from the scheduled time.'

Pending = When a customer is in the potential calling population.

Times to failure for a given class of machine have beedn characterized by the exponential, the Weibull, and gamma distributions. Models with a exponential runtime are sometimes analytically tractable.

Queue behaviors:
- Balk = Leave when they see that the line is too long.
- Renege (leave after being in line when they see that it's moving too slowly.)
- Jockey (Move from one line to another).

Queue disciplines:
- FIFO, LIFO, SIRO, SPT, PR.

CHAPTER 2 - QUEUEING NOTATIONS

A/B/c/N/K

A - Interarrival time-istribution
B - Service-time distribution
c - Number of parallel servers
N - System capacity
K - size of the calling population

common symbols for A and B:
M - Exponential or Markovian
D - Constant or deterministic
E_k - Erlang of order k.
PH - Phase Type
H - Hyperexponential
G - Arbitrary or general
GI - General or independent.

Example: M/M/1/inf/inf = single server system that has unlimited queue capacity and infinite population of potential arrivals. Interarrival times and service times are exponentially distributed.


KAPITEL 3

